Let us look at such case.
This is a branch and control statement.
It is just like a switchboard at home.
Whichever thing you want to put on, you have to press that switch on.
So it is just like that.
So this is the construct of switch case, the statement switch.
Here you can write something, expression or a variable, anything, but you can mention either integer
type or character type variable or an expression.
And for the different values of this expression, you can mention various cases.
So I have example mentioned case one and case two and there is a space mostly people do mistake here,
they don't give a space here, so they face a problem.
It will not be a syntax error, but it works but doesn't give the result.
Then colon followed by that.
You can write what all you want under this case, then break the case and break and default is optional.
So if the cases are not mentioned for the other cases you can mention default.
Let us see how it works.
The value of this expression.
If it is one, then this case is executed and break.
It will come out here.
If the value of this expression is two, then it will directly jump to case two and it will execute
this statement and break and come out here.
If you mention the value as of 903 or any other number apart from one and two, it will jump on to default
and then there is nothing, so it will come out of switch.
So one important thing is if you don't give this break, then if the value of the expression is one,
then it will execute case one, followed by that it will execute case two also then break and it will
come out.
So it will execute both the cases.
So for every case, you have to mention a break.
If you don't need it, then you can skip it.
So you should know clearly whether you need it or not.
Otherwise, you make it as mandatory.
Next.
Next thing.
What?
All the cases you want you can mention.
And if you don't want default, you can avoid it.
And you can write on default anyway.
It's optional.
If it is written anywhere else, then you should have a break followed by that.
Now next thing.
If it is integer type, then I can write cases as one, two, three, four.
So if it is character type, then I can use cases like this.
A Encodes.
B encodes.
So if the value of character is A, then this will execute.
B then this will execute and so on.
So I can even use character labels.
Also, so the activities are called as labels, so you can use labels in the form of characters.
Also where this which case is useful.
Mostly it is useful for writing menu driven program.
For example, if I take the example of notepad in notepad we will have the menu that is file, and in
that file the options will be there like new open save, save as.
Now for each I can mention some code behind this one.
If this is click, let us say it is one.
If this is click, let us say it is two, then three, then four.
So four depending on the value that is clicked, we can execute that particular case.
If the case is one our cases two, we cannot give strings here.
You cannot write a new in course here.
So you have to use numbers or alphabets so we can assign some codes to this.
If this is click do this work.
If this is click, then do this work.
So for every menu option, I can define the cases and even inside the case I can have against which
also so we can have nested switch also.
Like for five.
Minow One case in that case, again switch.
If one is pressed the new tools press then open like that we can mention the case.
So menus are designed using switch cases.
When we do that type of programming, we will see that.
Let us look at an example.
Using Switch case, I will write a program to take our day number and display the name Main.
Here I will take a variable day and see out and day number see in.
Dave.
Switch.
C Whatever the value is given based on that day in case if it is one.
Then see out Monday and break.
Then key is to see out Tuesday and then give a break goes on.
Default.
If it is any other value like other than 1 to 7 days will be there.
Other than that we can see out in value today close end of a program.
So this program will take our daily number and it will display the name of our day, whether it is Monday
or Tuesday or so on.
That's all about such case.
You can type this program by yourself and you can test it on your machine because simultaneously practice
is more important.
Practice will make you perfect on C++, so practice this one.
And the next video is on the program.
Sample program.